### Mean   
The mean of an observation variable is a numerical measure of the central location of the data values. It is the sum of its data values divided by data count.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> mean(duration)                    # apply the mean function
[1] 3.4878
```

### Median
The median of an observation variable is the value at the middle when the data is sorted in ascending order. It is an ordinal measure of the central location of the data values.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> median(duration)                  # apply the median function
[1] 4
```

### Quartiles
There are several quartiles of an observation variable. The first quartile, or lower quartile, is the value that cuts off the first 25% of the data when it is sorted in ascending order. The second quartile, or median, is the value that cuts off the first 50%. The third quartile, or upper quartile, is the value that cuts off the first 75%.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> quantile(duration)                # apply the quantile function
    0%    25%    50%    75%   100%
1.6000 2.1627 4.0000 4.4543 5.1000
```

### Percentiles
The nth percentile of an observation variable is the value that cuts off the first n percent of the data values when it is sorted in ascending order.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> quantile(duration, c(.32, .57, .98))
   32%    57%    98%
2.3952 4.1330 4.9330
```

### Range
The range of an observation variable is the difference of its largest and smallest data values. It is a measure of how far apart the entire data spreads in value.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> max(duration) − min(duration)     # apply the max and min functions
[1] 3.5
```

### Interquartile range
The interquartile range of an observation variable is the difference of its upper and lower quartiles. It is a measure of how far apart the middle portion of data spreads in value.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions     # the eruption durations
> IQR(duration)                     # apply the IQR function
[1] 2.2915
```

### Boxplot
The box plot of an observation variable is a graphical representation based on its quartiles, as well as its smallest and largest values. It attempts to provide a visual shape of the data distribution.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions       # the eruption durations
> boxplot(duration, horizontal=TRUE)  # horizontal box plot
```

### Variance
The variance is a numerical measure of how the data values is dispersed around the mean.   

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions    # the eruption durations
> var(duration)                    # apply the var function
[1] 1.3027
```

### Standard deviation
The standard deviation of an observation variable is the square root of its variance.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions    # the eruption durations
> sd(duration)                     # apply the sd function
[1] 1.1414  
```

### Covariance
he covariance of two variables x and y in a data sample measures how the two are linearly related. A positive covariance would indicates a positive linear relationship between the variables, and a negative covariance would indicate the opposite.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions   # the eruption durations
> waiting = faithful$waiting      # the waiting period
> cov(duration, waiting)          # apply the cov function
[1] 13.978
```

### Correlation
The correlation coefficient of two variables in a data sample is their covariance divided by the product of their individual standard deviations. It is a normalized measurement of how the two are linearly related.

If the correlation coefficient is close to 1, it would indicates that the variables are positively linearly related and the scatter plot falls almost along a straight line with positive slope. For -1, it indicates that the variables are negatively linearly related and the scatter plot almost falls along a straight line with negative slope. And for zero, it would indicates a weak linear relationship between the variables.

```r
> duration = faithful$eruptions   # the eruption durations
> waiting = faithful$waiting      # the waiting period
> cor(duration, waiting)          # apply the cor function
[1] 0.90081
```
