Probability distribution
========================


### intro
A probability distribution describes how the values of a random variable is distributed. For example, the collection of all possible outcomes of a sequence of coin tossing is known to follow the binomial distribution. Whereas the means of sufficiently large samples of a data population are known to resemble the normal distribution. Since the characteristics of these theoretical distributions are well understood, they can be used to make statistical inferences on the entire data population as a whole.

### Binomial distribution
The binomial distribution is a discrete probability distribution. It describes the outcome of n independent trials in an experiment. Each trial is assumed to have only two outcomes, either success or failure. If the probability of a successful trial is p, then the probability of having x successful outcomes in an experiment of n independent trials.

+ Problem: Suppose there are __twelve__ multiple choice questions in an English class quiz. Each question has __five__ possible answers, and only one of them is correct. Find the probability of having four or less correct answers if a student attempts to answer every question at random.

```r
# probability of having exactly 4 correct answers by random attempts
> dbinom(4, size=12, prob=0.2)  
[1] 0.1329

# The probability of having four or less correct answers by random attempts
> dbinom(0, size=12, prob=0.2) +
+ dbinom(1, size=12, prob=0.2) +
+ dbinom(2, size=12, prob=0.2) +
+ dbinom(3, size=12, prob=0.2) +
+ dbinom(4, size=12, prob=0.2)
[1] 0.9274

# The cumulative probability function for binomial distribution pbinom
> pbinom(4, size=12, prob=0.2)
[1] 0.92744
```

### Poisson distribution
The Poisson distribution is the probability distribution of independent event occurrences in an interval. It is a discrete probability distribution that expresses the probability of a given number of events occurring in a fixed interval of time and/or space if these events occur with a known average rate and independently of the time since the last event. For instance, an individual keeping track of the amount of mail they receive each day may notice that they receive an average number of 4 letters per day. If receiving any particular piece of mail doesn't affect the arrival times of future pieces of mail, i.e., if pieces of mail from a wide range of sources arrive independently of one another, then a reasonable assumption is that the number of pieces of mail received per day obeys a Poisson distribution.[

+ Problem: If there are twelve cars crossing a bridge per minute on average, find the probability of having seventeen or more cars crossing the bridge in a particular minute

```r
# The probability of having sixteen or less cars crossing the bridge in a particular minute
> ppois(16, lambda=12)   # lower tail
[1] 0.89871

# The probability of having seventeen or more cars crossing the bridge in a minute
> ppois(16, lambda=12, lower=FALSE)   # upper tail
[1] 0.10129
```

### Continuous uniform distribution
The continuous uniform distribution is the probability distribution of random number selection from the continuous interval between a and b. Its density function is defined by the following.

+ problem: Select ten random numbers between one and three.


```r
# Use runif ( random uniform distribution ) to generate ten random numbers between one and three.
> runif(10, min=1, max=3)
[1] 1.6121 1.2028 1.9306 2.4233 1.6874 1.1502 2.7068
[8] 1.4455 2.4122 2.2171
```

### Exponential distribution
The exponential distribution describes the arrival time of a randomly recurring independent event sequence.

+ problem: Suppose the mean checkout time of a supermarket cashier is three minutes. Find the probability of a customer checkout being completed by the cashier in less than two minutes.

```r
> pexp(2, rate=1/3)
[1] 0.48658
```

### Normal distribution
The normal distribution is defined by the following probability density function, where μ is the population mean and σ2 is the variance. In particular, the normal distribution with μ = 0 and σ = 1 is called the standard normal distribution, and is denoted as N(0,1). It can be graphed as follows. The normal distribution is important because of the __Central Limit Theorem__, which states that the population of all possible samples of size n from a population with mean μ and variance σ2 approaches a normal distribution with mean μ and σ2∕n when n approaches infinity.


+ problem: Assume that the test scores of a college entrance exam fits a normal distribution. Furthermore, the mean test score is 72, and the standard deviation is 15.2. What is the percentage of students scoring 84 or more in the exam?


```r
> pnorm(84, mean=72, sd=15.2, lower.tail=FALSE)
[1] 0.21492
```

The normal distribution

```r                        
dnorm(x, mean = 0, sd = 1, log = FALSE)                         # density distribution
pnorm(q, mean = 0, sd = 1, lower.tail = TRUE, log.p = FALSE)    # distribution function
```

  + x - vector of quantiles
  + p - vector probabilities
  + mean - vector of means  [default - 0]
  + sd - vector of standard deviations  [default - 1]
  + lower.tail - logical; if TRUE (default), probabilities are P[X ≤ x] otherwise, P[X > x].
  + log.p - logical; if TRUE, probabilities p are given as log(p).


### Chi square distribution

+ problem: Find the 95th percentile of the Chi-Squared distribution with 7 degrees of freedom.

```r
> qchisq(.95, df=7)        # 7 degrees of freedom
[1] 14.067
```

### Student t test
Student's t-distribution (or simply the t-distribution) is any member of a family of continuous probability distributions that arises when estimating the mean of a normally distributed population in situations where the sample size is small and population standard deviation is unknown. Whereas a normal distribution describes a full population, t-distributions describe samples drawn from a full population; accordingly, the t-distribution for each sample size is different, and the larger the sample, the more the distribution resembles a normal distribution. The t-distribution plays a role in a number of widely used statistical analyses, including Student's t-test for assessing the statistical significance of the difference between two sample means, the construction of confidence intervals for the difference between two population means, and in linear regression analysis. The Student's t-distribution also arises in the Bayesian analysis of data from a normal family.

+ Problem: find the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles of the Student t distribution with 5 degrees of freedom.

```r
> qt(c(.025, .975), df=5)   # 5 degrees of freedom
[1] -2.5706  2.5706
```
